Hi, everyone.
I just wanted to point out two
commentaries that Jeff Leak and
I recently published on the proceedings of
a National Academy of Sciences
in the journal, Science.
So first one is basically
about the idea of treating
poor data analysis as a problem
that should be prevented.
So it's kinda taking like
a disease type of analogy here and
how do we prevent
the disease from occurring.
So this is very related to the evidence
based data analysis lectures that you've
already seen in this course.
And we've taken the time to write up a
summary of kinda what we believe should be
done and how best we can address the
problem of preventing poor analysis from
happening and
from being published in the literature.
The second commentary which was
published in Science recently is about
framing the question in a data analysis,
and how if you inappropriately
identify the question, then it will lead
to kind of problems with reproducibility.
Because there are many different kinds
of data analyses that you can do.
And not all of them you would expect
the results to be reproduced, for
example if you had a highly
exploratory analysis
where you were just looking for different
interesting predictors that you might
wanna follow up within
a more careful study.
Well, the highly exploratory or
even descriptive type of analysis
is one type of analysis that we might
use to kind of generate hypotheses or
to generate ideas, but we don't expect it
to be the be all and the end all analysis.
On the other hand, you might have
a more confirmative type of analysis
where you have a very carefully
designed either trial, or a study.
Where your trying to confirm
that two things are associated.
Maybe a drug improved people
with a certain disease,
improves the health of people
with a certain disease.
Or maybe it eliminates
certain types of problems.
So when you have more confirmatory type
of analysis that you're trying to do,
then things have to be done
much more carefully, and
there often have to be pre-specified
protocols and things like that.
So, in many ways one can kind of
sort the evidence produced by various
publications by first identifying,
what is the question that's being asked
and what type of analysis is being done?
Cuz then we can set our expectations about
what we expect to see in the analysis.
And what we would expect to kind of
be reproduced further down the line.
So I encourage you to take a look at these
commentaries and to see what you think.